Media is a great way to enhance our content.
WordPress fully supports all kinds of media from images to videos to audio files.
You can view all the media you have uploaded on the media page in the WordPress admin dashboard you
may see some images here already.
These were provided by faker press when we ran it.
We're going to create a block that will allow the user to select an image from the media uploader and
render it on the page.
WordPress already provides this feature but you may end up having to create your own version later down
the road in the resource section of this lecture.
I provided zip file that contains everything you'll need download it and unzip the contents into the
app directory.
You'll be provided a folder called Media upload block inside this folder should be two files and indexed
dot J.S. file and editor dot SPSS file the ed. file will contain some stylings to position of Remove
button.
We will give our users the choice to remove an image they select the index file contains the usual we
are D structuring some components and registering the block to get started.
We'll need to d structure a couple more components from the WP dot editor object D structure the media
upload and media upload share components
from the WP components object D structure the dash icon object the media upload component will generate
the UI for selecting and uploading images to the media uploader the media upload check component does
something different than any other component we've encountered so far it was specifically made to check
to see if the user currently logged in has the correct permissions to upload and manage files.
This component must be wrapped around the media upload component.
You'll see how that's done soon enough.
The dash icon component allows you to use the dash icon set anywhere on your block.
Previously we used the name to display an icon but that's because WordPress took the time to render
this component for you.
If we want to use a dash icon in a custom location then it will need to be the ones to render the icon.
It's super simple so don't worry with the components these structured.
Let's set some attributes the attribute we're going to create will revolve around what the media upload
returns will be returned and I.D. you URL and alternative text.
Let's start with the idea.
The name will be image I.D..
That type will be no the I.D. will be the I.D. of the media item which is stored in the database.
We won't be using it but it's still something you may need later down the road.
I'm also not going to store it in the element.
Instead I'll just stored in the comments.
Next is the image you are out the type will be string and the source will be attribute.
We are essentially telling WordPress that the value can be found inside an attribute when it's loading
the HDMI out from the database.
If you set the source to attribute then you'll need to set the attribute property next.
This will allow you to specify the attribute the value is stored in.
Set this to source we'll be using an image tag.
It would make sense that the euro would be stored there.
Lastly define the selector property and set it to image.
I'm going to make a copy of this as the alternative text will be the same thing except the attribute
will be all at
all right.
The attributes are ready.
The next step is to set up the UI the UI will require a bit of work to set up so prepare yourself first.
We're going to need to return some J.S. ex
then we'll need to display a button that will render the media uploader.
Here's the problem no we only want to display the button if there is no media currently being displayed.
Want to use a conditional statement for this but we can't use traditional conditional statements in
NJ OSX x instead we'll have to use a ternary operator for the condition.
I'm going to check if the prompts got attributes.
Dot image I.D. is set if it is then it will display the image.
Otherwise will display the button for the media uploader.
We'll start with the media uploader output the media upload check and media upload components
I'm wrapping the media upload component inside the media upload check component this is required if
you want to limit who can and who can't upload images you're not required to pass in any special attribute
to the media upload check component it's already properly configured for you in the resource section
of this lecture I provide a link to his components documentation this page will provide an example on
how to use this component and its attributes.
Feel free to read up on it after you finish this lecture.
Back inside the script.
The first attribute will define is allowed to types.
This should be set to an array of file types you'd like to allow.
We only want to allow one type of file which is image.
This is optional but if you set it WordPress will limit what media file type of user can select.
We only want to allow users to select images.
Next we'll need to set the value attribute.
Set this to prompts dot attributes dot image I.D. If you pass into a value then WordPress will automatically
select the media item with the same idea.
This way the user doesn't have to scroll around to find the media item they selected previously the
next attribute is on select.
Set this to select image.
This is an event that will be triggered when the user selects an image.
The value for this attribute should be a function that will process the image we're passing in a named
function that currently isn't define we'll define it in just a moment but let's keep moving forward.
Lastly we'll need to set the renderer attribute this attribute is used to render the button that will
open the media uploader the media upload component will not display the media uploader immediately instead
it gets rendered when a certain function is called The Media upload component gives us the opportunity
to create that button ourselves.
The value for this attribute will be an anonymous function that will be passed in an object.
We only care about one property from this object and that's the open function.
The structure that the open function will open the media uploader we'll call this in a moment but let's
create a button using the button component
I'm applying the button and button dash large classes the text in sign will be upload.
Image.
Now let's set the on click event to the open function.
Here's what's going to happen.
The media upload component will display the button we created in the render attribute.
The button will call the open function when the click event is triggered.
The open function will take care of displaying the media uploader when called before we begin displaying
the image after it's been selected.
We'll need to store the image data for the on select attribute we're calling the select image function.
Let's define that above
the function will we pass in an object called image.
This object will contain the properties and values related to the image selected from the media uploader
using this object.
I'm going to set each attribute to their respective property
to do this.
I'm calling the set attributes function in a previous lecture.
We would only set one value but it is possible to set multiple values like I'm doing here.
The idea of the image is stored in the ideas property the image you are well is stored in the your l
property and the alternative text is stored in the altered property.
I was able to find out the names by simply logging the object and reviewing it in the console.
I recommend you try logging the object yourself.
This will give you a better idea of what properties are inside the object.
The next step is to display the image back inside the return statement.
I'm going to add the code to the section that will run if the condition is true which is checking if
there is an image i.e. I'm going to wrap everything with a div tag.
The tank should have the class image container
I'm adding this because we're going to have a button with absolute positioning in order to have elements
with absolute positioning.
We need a tag with relative positioning which is what this class does from here.
I'm going to add the image tag with the source and all attributes I'll set them to their respective
attribute values.
Lastly we need to add the button that will remove the image if the user clicks on it.
We're going to use another ternary operator for this.
We only want to display the button if the block is currently selected.
This is a user experience design decision.
If the user is editing the block then it makes sense to display options related to editing the block.
However if the block isn't selected then we want to hide the options to prevent adding clutter to the
interface.
Once again this step is optional but I think it makes sense here.
We're going to check if the props dot is selected property is set to true.
Remember this is a property WordPress will automatically update for you if the block is being edited.
If this returns true then we'll display the button component.
I'm applying the class button remove and setting the on click event to remove image.
This function doesn't exist but we'll be adding it soon enough for the content inside.
I'm going to add the dash icon component
you have the option of adding in your own custom SPG icon but I think a dash icon will suffice here.
You can use any of the Nash icons provided by WordPress.
All you need to do is add the icon actually view and pass in the name of the icon you'd like to use.
You don't have to add the dash icon dash prefix as it's added for you the icon and we're going to use
is the no icon which is an x mark.
I'm also going to set the size attribute to 20.
This is measured in pixels that should display the button.
It has absolute positioning.
Check out the editor file for the CSX code to finish things off.
We'll need to set the second half of the ternary operator to know which will display nothing.
If the block isn't selected the last step is to create the remove image function we specified for the
on click event.
I'll create it above.
It will be the same thing as before except all set all attributes to know like so.
All right let's recap what this function will do.
Let's assume the block was added for the first time.
The first thing that will happen is this condition check it will check if there is a value for image
I.D. by default it should be no since that's the case.
The second half of this code will run the media upload component will be rendered that media upload
component will display whatever is in the render property the render property will display a button
that will run the open function when it's clicked the open function was provided to us by the component.
So we don't have to do anything else.
The media library model will open and allow the user to select or upload an image.
If an image is selected then the function inside the on select function will run.
Scrolling up all we're doing here is using the image object and setting the attributes to their respective
values.
This will cause the block to re render again this time since the image I.D. attribute has a value.
The code inside the first half will render this will render the image the user selected.
This will also display a button that will allow them to remove the image of the block as active.
If they click the button then the remove image function will run.
This will set all the attributes to note.
That's basically it.
The save function will display the image.
Use the image tag and set the source and alter attributes to their respective values.
Save your changes and import this block from the app slash index dot J.S. file then D into the blocks
rectory and run the NPM run Dev command.
Lastly try creating a new recipe post and add this block to your content
initially.
You should see a button if you click it then a modal should appear.
This is the media library you can select any image and then press select the button should disappear
and instead the image should appear in its place.
There is also the option of removing the button.
If I were to D select the block then the Remove button should go away.
If I were to select the block again then it will reappear clicking on this should remove the image.
I'm going to add the image back in and save the post viewing the post on the front end should just display
the image.
We're finished.
We know how to add the media uploader to our blocks.
Feel free to play around with this.